DEMOGRAPHIC CONSTANTS SELECTED

	minimum age (integer GEQ 0) = 62
	maximum age (integer SEQ 85) = 62
	migration included (0,1) = 0
	newborns included (0,1) = 0
	restricted to disease (integer GEQ 0) = 70

EPIDEMIOLOGICAL CONSTANTS SELECTED

	mortality effect of risk factors through non-modeled diseases (0,1) = 1
	way correction of double counting mortality (1,2,3) = 2
	RR's and relapse rates of former smokers dependent on time since smoking cessation (0,1) = 0
	user provided risk factor class prevalence rates (0,1,2) = 1
	
MODEL VERSIONS SELECTED

	deterministic marginal model population = 0
	deterministic joint model population = 0
	deterministic joint model stratified by age = 0
	stochastic joint model stratified by individuals = 0
	deterministic marginal model on patient population = 1

SCENARIO CHARACTERISTICS SELECTED

	length of simulation period (integer GEQ 1) = 5
	#scenarios (integer GEQ 1) = 2
	type of analysis (standard 0, sensitivity 1) = 0

RISK FACTORS SELECTED

	smoking = 0
	SBP = 1
	total cholesterol = 1
	BMI = 0
	physical activity = 0
	consumption alcohol = 0
	consumption saturated fatty acids = 0
	consumption trans fatty acids = 0
	consumption fruit = 0
	consumption vegetables = 0
	consumption fish = 0
	HbA1c = 0

CHRONIC DISEASES SELECTED

	related with risk factors selected (0,1) = 0

NON-CANCER

	AMI = 0
	other CHD = 0
	CHF = 0
	CVA = 0
	asthma = 0
	COPD = 0
	diabetes = 1
	dementia = 0
	atrhrosis of the hip = 0
	arthrosis of the knee = 0
	arthrosis other = 0
	dorsopathies = 0
	osteoporosis = 0

CANCER

	cancer of lung = 0
	cancer of rectum = 0
	cancer of colon = 0
	cancer of stomach = 0
	cancer of oesophagus = 0
	cancer of breast = 0
	cancer of prostate = 0
	cancer of larynx = 0
	cancer of uriny bladder = 0
	cancer of kidney = 0
	cancer of pancreas = 0
	cancer of oral cavity = 0
	cancer of endometrium = 0
	cancer of cervix = 0
	cancer of ovary = 0

END

COMMENTS ON DEMOGRAPHIC CONSTANTS

COMMENTS ON EPIDEMIOLOGICAL CONSTANTS

	mortality effect of risk factors through non-modeled diseases (0,1)

		if 1, the other causes mortality risks are calculated as the difference between the empirical all cause mortality
		rates and the all cause mortality rates resulting from adding up the disease-related exces smortality rates.
		consistency checks have been built in, e.g. in most cases non-negativity.

	way correction of double counting mortality (1,2)

		two ways of adjusting empirical disease-related excess mortality rates
		1: by assuming adjusted disease-related excess mortality rates are equal to registered cause-specific mortality rates
		2: by adjusting for mortality from co-morbidity group. co-morbidity rates are calculated using risk factor class
			prevalence rates and disease incidence rate ratios

	RR's and relapse rates of former smokers dependent on time since smoking cessation (0,1)

		if 1, alternative model equations are used to described the life course of smokers, i.e.
		-	former smokers are sub-divided over 1-year time-intervals since smoking cessation
		-	quitters start in 1st 1-year time interval. if no relapse, yearly transition to next 1-year time-interval
		-	the relapse rates, disease incidence and other causes mortality rates depend on time since smoking cessation
				according to log-linear model

	user provided risk factor class prevalence rates (0,1,2)

		by default, risk factor class prevalence rates within disease groups are calculated using disease incidence rate ratios.
		alternatively, empirical distributions can be provided. current implementation is cholesterol & SBP (8 classes) among
		diabetics, applied to initial DM prevalence only (1)

COMMENTS ON MODEL VERSIONS

	deterministic marginal model population

		model version that approximates the joint distribution of the population over risk factor classes and disease states
		by marginal distributions (risk factor class prevalence and disease prevalence rates) and fixed co-variance structure.
		changes of the marginal distributions (prevalence rates) are calculated using state transition rates taking account of
		the co-variance structure (disease incidence rate ratios). the population is divided in age-year cohorts that each
		1-year time-step move to the next age-year. 85+ is rest age class.

	deterministic joint model population

		model version that calculates the joint distribution of the population over risk factor classes and disease states.
		all state transition rates are initially calculated and assumed time-constant. the population is divided in age-year
		cohorts that each 1-year time-step move to the next age-year. 85+ is rest age class.

	deterministic joint model stratified by age

		see 'deterministic joint model population'. here, all age-year cohorts are simulated separately. costs less memory and
		computer calculation time than 'deterministic joint model population' in case of small age ranges selected. costs too
		much memory if relatively large numbers of risk factors and diseases are selected, see 'stochastic joint model stratified
		by individuals'

	stochastic joint model stratified by individuals

		see 'deterministic joint model population'. here, all individuals are simulated separately using randomly drawn
		transitions. costs less memory than (see) 'deterministic joint model stratified by age'


	stochastic joint model stratified by individuals (life course) PM

		see 'stochastic joint model stratified by individuals'. randomly draws time to next event, instead of working with fixed
		1-year time steps

	deterministic marginal model on patient population

		model version that approximates the joint distribution of the patient population over risk factor classes and disease states
		the patient population are the persons having disease patientsel. the approximation is by marginal distributions, i.e.
		risk factor class prevalence numbers joint with the disease and disease prevalence rates conditional on having the disease
		using a fixed co-variance structure. the changes of the marginal distributions (prevalence rates) are calculated using
		state transition rates taking account of the co-variance structure (disease incidence rate ratios).
		the population is divided in age-year cohorts that each	1-year time-step move to the next age-year. 85+ is rest age class.
		see also 'deterministic marginal model on total population'

COMMENTS ON SCENARIO CHARACTERISTICS

	type of analysis

	0	standard, for all standard analyses: projections, scenarios etc.

	1	sensitivity, for calculating the sensitivity of selected outcome variables for changes in selected input parameters.
		selection is made through sensinput.txt. note that the effect of the selections may depend on the risk factors and
		diseases selected. e.g., sensitivty for case fatality rates cannot be assessed if inly disease 'dementia' is selected.

	2	stability, for assessing the stability of risk factor class pevalence rates. used for model analyses.

	3	testing of CZM

	4	Ons Eten Gemeten application

	5	PAR application

COMMENTS ON RISK FACTORS

	see input files

COMMENTS ON CHRONIC DISEASES

	related with risk factors selected (0,1)

		if 1, all diseases are selected that are causally related with risk factor(s) selected. overrules specific disease
		selections.

	for specific diseases, see input files
